Meta Refresh Conference : 16th - 17th April 2015

Sharing my learning at the meta refresh conference, plus some of the key web technologies used by frontend developers:

	1.   How JavaScript flow works in browser
		a. Compile the JavaScript code
		b. Generate binary code
		c. Interpreter interprets the binary code
		d. Initialize context variable
		e. Executes 
	
	2. Why Use JavaScript - it does below actions on browser
		a. Template (templating with less memory is the idea need to achieve)
		b. Animation
		c. Validation
		d. Execution

	3. Event Bubbling - capturing
		a. Events are heavy
		b. Event should be captured on propagation stage
		c. All the handlers works on bubbling stage, means all the events will be available form targeted item to parent item which is not a good approach. But using addEventListener(type, method, true) we can avoid bubbling stage, which is the only way to capture the event in capturing phase.
		d. We  can avoid bubbling phase using  event.cancleBubble=true for IE and event.stopProppagtion() for rest browsers
		
	4. Event propagation on Canvas
		a. When event fired on the canvas the browser engine initialize the event and observe the event.
		b. Then call the event
		c. Inline events handlers are lazy to complie
		d. Never bind scroll event in Mobile web and apps. Best way is use touch start and touch end functionality.
		
	5. PkQuery.js
		a. Conceptual framework for data interactivity
		b. Best for organize complexity around data-driven interactive Single page web/apps
		
	6. Component approach for building web application 
		a. Building application based on component 
		b. Web component consists of 4 technology  [Custom element, html imports, templates and Shadow DOM ]
		c. One of the good library is Google polymer (which follows Atomic design pattern)
	7. Vulcanize:
		a. This library helps in processing web components into one output file.
		b. Reduces load on html file 
		c. its dependent html imports into a single file
		
	8. Sprite.js
		a. This is a framework that let user create animation and games using sprites in effective ways.
		b. This is a common framework can be used across the platform
		c. Always binds and unbinds as event to the DOM element.
		
	9. Bracket:
		a. Adobe introduces it as a free open source code editor for web
		b. Brackets open a live connection to the user's browser when live files preview is enabled.
		c. Browser shows real time changes to the css class & properties , html markup as user typed.
		
	10. Optimizing critical rendering path
		a. Analyze web performance using Chrome extension
		b. Use Chrome web inspector => Time line => Paint to observe the site performance
		c. Add all relevant css on top inside the style tag
		d. Then load the rest of the css and javascript using loadCss() and loadJS() functions.
